---
layout: page
title: Why I Began Writing…(Publicly)
permalink: /writing/
image: '/images/16.jpg'
---

My first love was playing outside. The combination of nature and the thrill of competitive sports made me feel the most human, tapping into the primal wiring evolution had granted me over millions of years. (And to this day, playing sports grants me an indescribable sense of joy).

My second love was reading. I started coming home and curling up with a book for hours on end, ignoring all sense of time, hunger, and thirst, turning one page after the next. This persisted until late college, and it was only recently that I began falling in love with its cousin, writing.

I suspect this is the product of many factors, but performing PCA on such a transition has led me to identify two major culprits. The first is my surrounding culture. As ex-pats from India who grew up without the ample opportunities afforded to my brother and I, my parents prized the value of reading and knowledge. They quite literally walked miles to reach libraries and would eagerly await borrowing a new book. Consequently, my home culture places a heavy emphasis on reading, viewing it as a portal for social mobility, intellectual growth, and all around self-improvement. As an (arguably) fortunate graduate of an ivy-league education, a similar culture pervaded in college. As a freshman, I partook in the humanities sequence, which read around 900 pages per week of hefty philosophy, history, religion, arts, and various social sciences. This was certainly one of the most enjoyable experiences in my young adult life, but nonetheless continued the funnel of information in, without necessarily prioritizing the funnel of information out. The second is my changing viewpoint on having an opinion. In high school I was an avid participant in public forum debate, and was forced to examine the nuance of both sides of a topic. This led to me concluding that people who have a forcible opinion are idiots, and subconsciously led to a distaste of writing as a crystallization of opinion; words are free flowing, but etching them in paper felt permanent. 

It was only when I began widening my worldview that I realized two things: 1) not having an opinion is a privilege, and 2) writing is a leveraged medium for creation.

While I still believe in the nuance of argument, I ultimately think highly intelligent individuals are able to weigh the conflicting factors and still reach a conclusion with conviction. While listening to Chamath Palihapitiya discuss Warren Buffet’s investing strategy on All-In, I heard some paraphrase of the words “bet hard but be ready to pivot fast”. The same applies with opinions under Bayes’ Rule: hold an opinion that is consistent with the current body of evidence, but update your belief in light of new evidence. Ultimately, I found writing to be a helpful medium for opinion formation by forcibly analyzing the evidence as it currently stands.

The latter point deserves further explanation. When I read Richard Sutton’s “The Bitter Lesson”, one thing stood out to me: the pillars on which AI advancement rests is search and learning. Intuitively I felt the same should apply to a human who wishes to progress. At the same time, I was fortunate enough to rub shoulders with an unnamed investor who was building out his “Second Brain”. It was my first time hearing the concept, but it stuck, and I began organizing my thoughts in Notion and Obsidian. I felt that writing was an opportunity for thought distillation and that organized writing was an opportunity for “search” across my thoughts. That is just one form of leverage writing offers. The second is more philosophical, and began with reading Rick Rubin’s book on “The Creative Act”. I realized that reading had normalized me to ingesting other smart opinions rather than deriving my own. As I began tinkering with my own products, I developed a deep seated impetus to ‘practice creativity’ and creation, realizing that writing was exactly that.

Thus far, I have explained everything in the article’s title except the need to do so publicly. I have been writing for 3 years now, and only recently felt the push to put things on a personal website. I had a deep seated aversion for self-promotion and marketing, siding more with the Musk-esque ethos of “build great product and see what follows”— this has slowly shifted with evidence accumulation and is the second form of leverage that writing offers.

As I read and re-read Yuval Noah Hariri’s “Sapiens” the golden number for mammals felt important: the ability to form social ties via gossip fizzles out around 150 individuals. Only humans can imagine causes and beliefs that do not tangibly exist, thereby forming connections across nation-states, economies, political and religious ideals, etc. Similarly, when studying nucleation theory in a material science class, I remember reveling at a curious tidbit: The ratio between the volumetric free energy and surface free energy of a substance during crystallization determines the extent of crystal growth. If you have many tiny clusters but they don’t meet nothing happens. If you have a couple clusters grow big enough to connect with other nucleation sites, you suddenly hit an exponential. I overheard a VC mention how many founders there are now, and that some of them are better off as CTOs or first engineers; building a great team takes time and reach, and I hope that rather than too many nucleation sites, there is potential for cross-network crystallization. By publicly highlighting some of my thoughts, interests, and aspirations, I hope that I can connect with like-minded individuals, not just for our mutual communication, but also for the potential to create teams that can effectively change the world. No matter how wonderful your upbringing and background, our immediate circles are naturally circumscribed by geography, and so the role of the internet is to render such barricades obsolete. If writing publicly leads to nucleation and crystallization vis-a-vis shared beliefs, it becomes a highly leveraged action.

Lastly, while I still enjoy litmus testing my ideas and theories in person amongst my close friends, the law of large numbers reigns supreme. By putting my ideas out there publicly, I eagerly welcome any and all criticism. If viewed as a machine learning problem, larger and more diverse datasets will lead to better gradient feedback, and hence a better predictive network: in this case, updating my opinions on various topics. The articles here are not extensive but merely some samples of things that I find interesting or fascinating. I hope you enjoy the read and thanks for visiting!


<hr>