---
layout: post
title:  The Power of Diversity in Science
description: Some thoughts on architecture and diversity in Science
date:   2016-08-3 15:01:35 +0300
image:  '/images/20.jpg'
tags:   [science, diversity, thoughts]
---

Summer Dip into Research
Pranav Iyer
Solon High School and Cleveland Clinic Genomic Medicine Institute, Cleveland, OH

Coming in to do research as a high school student, I immediately felt overwhelmed, scared, and out of my league. The night before my first day, I remember my stomach tying up in knots, filled with the imagery I thought awaited me. Flasks and beakers shone like unwelcoming beacons on lab benches, while pipettes cluttered the area, resembling evil mini-guns that were intended to wreak havoc. Men and women hastily scurried around like robots in lab coats and goggles, performing experiment after experiment on their unlucky test subjects. Caged mice shrieked in the background, while the purple UV light of the cell culture room cast an eerie atmosphere.
This was my impression of research, one conditioned by watching movies with crazy, evil scientists who only sought power and strength. This sort of media has painted science in a negative light, causing many high school students like myself to hold it as common belief. 
However, after my love for science conquered whatever fearful imaginations I had conjured, I could readily see that these media portrayals were not true. Rather than evil potions, I found myself uncovering the secrets of the cell at a molecular level, while meticulously following the procedural techniques of the lab. Learning how to run a Western Blot or perform a quantitative Real Time-PCR was tough, but the feeling after I successfully completed the procedure for the first time was second to none. The excitement of unearthing and elucidating the non-canonical functions of a cancer-susceptibility gene is truly gripping: One unlike any school or extracurricular experience. The suspense in performing an experiment and awaiting the results, only to find them counterintuitive to your hypothesis is unparalleled, yet an immensely valuable teaching lesson. Here I learnt that, in research, there is no straightforward answer, and upon receiving discouraging findings we learn to quickly interpret and push forward in a new direction. Initially dismayed at going to a lab from 8 am to 4 pm every weekday of the summer, I slowly began looking forward to the next day, the next experiment. The fundamental principles behind basic science research were fascinating, something I found applicable to all areas of life. The ethical rigor in experimentation, having control group after control group, testing an experiment numerous times for replication, utilizing different techniques to illustrate the same phenomenon, was the bedrock discipline that I could carry forth to anything I do. 
Moreover, rather than robots for scientists, I uncovered wonderful people, unique and different in their own ways. The scientist who is also a poet. The scientist who is also as strong as Captain America (without using secret potion). The scientist who is also an artist. Sarcastic, witty, funny, kind - they all had emotions and their own backstory, no longer slated, robotic faces but real people, performing some of the most innovative and impactful work that would translate into real solutions for the general populous. 
Then how come most of America doesn’t get this? The media perpetuates negative impressions of research, whilst glamorizing other things like fast cars and fashion, distracting and turning away young minds from liking research, or even trying it. I remember a statement that stuck with me from a graduate trainee lunch I had the opportunity to attend: “Neil deGrasse Tyson may be the most important scientist, ever.” Einstein was brilliant, but Tyson has communicated the importance of science to the public. Holistically, scientists have done a poor job of talking to the people for decades, transitively leading to a lack of interest in many youths around the country. And so, the task falls squarely upon our shoulders, as scientists and innovators, to take action, convey the importance of our work, and spark the flame in today’s youth. We don’t suddenly have to become talk show hosts, but simply to reach out in our own ways, little by little. 
In fact, in 21st century America, the job description has changed: no longer is it merely to research at a lab bench, but rather, to discover, understand, and communicate our findings with clarity to the public. Given the recent political changes within our country, the time for this shift has never beckoned as it does today. Rather than having research be relegated to the backburner, underfunded, and undercut, we need to make a push to the forefront: and it starts with engaging today’s youth like myself. 

